Comprehensive Tutorial on John the Ripper in Kali Linux
Introduction
John the Ripper (JtR) is a powerful open-source password cracking tool used primarily for
password security testing. It supports numerous encryption formats and password hash
types, making it an essential tool for ethical hacking and penetration testing. Kali Linux
includes John the Ripper by default, along with various useful scripts and extensions.
Key Concepts and Definitions
1. Password Hash
A password hash is a cryptographic representation of a password. John the Ripper
works by attempting to guess the password that, when hashed, matches the stored
hash.
2. Cracking Modes
  o Single Crack Mode: Uses information about the user (username, home
  directory, etc.) to generate guesses.
  o Wordlist Mode: Utilizes a predefined list of possible passwords (wordlist).
  o Incremental Mode: Attempts all possible password combinations based on
  character sets.
  o External Mode: Custom modes defined by the user using scripts.
3. Wordlist
A file containing potential passwords. Wordlists are commonly used for brute-force
attacks and are available in /usr/share/wordlists in Kali Linux.
4. Rule-Based Attacks
Allows modifications to wordlist entries, like appending numbers, reversing words,
or leetspeak transformations.
5. Format
Specifies the type of hash (e.g., MD5, SHA-1, bcrypt) John is attempting to crack.
Setting Up John the Ripper
1. Install John the Ripper
If not already installed, use:
sudo apt update
sudo apt install john
2. Verify Installation
Check if John is installed:
john --help
Using John the Ripper
1. Identify Hash Type
Use the hashid tool in Kali to identify the type of a given hash:
echo "yourhashhere" | hashid
2. Basic Usage
a. Prepare a hash file containing the password hash.
Example: Create hash.txt with a sample hash.
b. Run John on the hash:
john hash.txt
3. Wordlist Mode
Specify a wordlist for cracking:
john --wordlist=/usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt hash.txt
4. Incremental Mode
Use incremental mode for brute-forcing:
john --incremental hash.txt
5. Show Cracked Passwords
Display already cracked passwords:
john --show hash.txt
Practical Examples
1. Cracking a Linux Password Hash
Extract hashes from /etc/shadow using unshadow:
unshadow /etc/passwd /etc/shadow > hash.txt
john hash.txt
2. Cracking Zip File Passwords
Use the zip2john utility:
zip2john file.zip > hash.txt
john hash.txt
